July 17, 2018 – Portland, OR

Have you ever had that dream where you are transported back in time to the middle ages? What would you do with all the little things you currently know and understand about the world? Will you create a new eden, where everyone is prosperous and happy; or will you accidentally cause a civil war that drags the economy through the gutters, causing famine and total depopulation of the continent? Will you become rich and wise only to see your idiot children drag your empire into the dust of mediocrity? Or will you, a single player, even be able to make a difference in an economy of millions of independent AI actors?

"We like to think that we would do everything different and better if we went back in time, but this is based on grossly simplified models of the past. Even the relatively uncomplicated middle-ages should prove to be a great shock to those players that are inclined towards 4x and grand strategy games."

Vosmiop Entertainment invites you to travel through time to a parallel dimension that looks and feels exactly like Europe in the middle-ages, with a few modest tweaks that open even more doors for you to experiment.

"The breadth of the game is truly spectacular, but it's difficult to really understand until you're sitting with the game. ... We had heard that it was supposed to be big, but the first time I sat down I tried scrolling from the west coast to the east and gave up after a couple minutes minutes. But it wasn't empty either, the entire way across the map was a hive of activity and distractions to investigate."

Every single citizen in the game is an incredibly capable AI, trying to make the best choices possible given the environment around it, the resources available, and what they've been exposed to. At the start of the game there are only 1.2 million citizens and 7900 villages with 253 central market hubs scattered across the country-side. But as you progress through time that population can change dramatically; "We've run simulations where the population gets up to 7 or 8 million before we run out of natural resources, but there are times when we've made some regrettable choices and seen the population drop down to several hundred thousand... Those are pretty rough games, I feel really guilty sometimes. But each time I try to make it a little better, and after 2 years of developing the game I think I'm starting to understand it a little bit."

Left to its own, the simulation generally finds a pretty stable place economically and politically; there are only two sources of randomness, the weather and the player. The citizens are actually pretty good at predicting the weather compared to the player. The player is a bit of a conundrum for our machine-learning citizenry; each action the player takes can end up causing dramatic changes to the entire world.

But with all this scale, the game fundamentally cannot be played like a normal 4x or grand strategy game; it's just too big, you cannot check on every town let alone all the villages. So that same learning AI that runs the citizenry is also capable of planning and executing political and military campaigns on your behalf (it's exactly the same AI in fact). In this game, your vassals are smart and capable enough that if you need the southern half of the country annexed, they can make that a reality. Unfortunately, much like any real-life leader, if you don't understand the difference between delegation and abdication you will quickly find yourself replaced by the same vassals you just entrusted with your armies.

This is a game of choices and options; your gender, skin color, abilities, and your past experiences are not limiting factors in this world. The only thing standing between you and success is your understanding of economics, agriculture, history, sociology, politics, warfare, diplomacy, and engineering. And if you learn all of those, we've made sure to make the API extremely accessible to modders so that the game can be extended to represent other timelines, countries, timelines, even other planets and fantasy dimensions.

We're excited to have you along for the ride!
